In this section will continue learning about 2015 2016 and 2017 will refactor object oriented code to
use the new 2015 Klasky word and implement inheritance using the new extends keyword will then remove
duplication in our constructor functions using the super keyword and use new data structures in 2015
and refactor asynchronous code with promises and generators.
We'll then learn some more helpful yes 20:15 methods and continue with as 2016 2017 and learn about
some upcoming features to Javascript.
So let's get started.
In this video we're going to talk about one of the larger additions to the javascript language with
yes 2015 and that is the classic used in javascript.
We do not have built in support for classes an object oriented program.
Unlike languages like Java Python THP Ruby and many more to mimic the behavior of object oriented programming
we use functions and objects.
The main idea behind object oriented programming is to reduce code duplication and improve readability
through creating classes in javascript.
We mimic the behavior of classes by using constructor functions and placing methods on the prototype
property of the constructor function.
Those terms are not familiar to you.
Make sure you watch the previous videos on object oriented programming in Javascript.
So what does the class keyword.
First it's a reserve keyword in javascript and it creates a constant which cannot be read declared in
2015.
The class keyword abstracts a lot of what's going on with constructor functions and prototypes and it
does not hoist.
So be sure to define your classes at the top of a file.
Although there are a lot of different terms and concepts here will still use the new keyword to create
objects.
Before we examine the class keyword Let's briefly review how object oriented code is written in yes
5.
Here we have a constructor function for a student and we use the keyword this to place properties on
an object which will be created using the new keyword.
In short yes fire revolves around constructor functions and using the new keyword to create objects
from that function in 2015.
Here's what that code would look like.
We use the Klasky word to give our function a name and inside of the class.
We add a special method called constructor inside a constructor.
We place the same code as what we had in the constructor function with S-5 constructor is a special
name of a function and this function will be run when the class is invoked using the new keyword in
object oriented programming.
When we invoke or create an object from a class we call that can stanchly Asian or creating an instance.
As an aside if you try to create an object from the class without the new word you'll get a type error
when we use the class keyword.
There is no notion of constructor functions or prototypes so there's still some resistance in the javascript
community around this addition since it abstracts so much.
However using the class keyword has become the standard practice when using more modern libraries and
frameworks including react.
So you'll see it quite a bit in the wild in the next video will examine the Klasky word a bit more and
show how methods are added to the prototype and constructor function.
See there.